course1-divide-conquer-sorting-searching/week1-merge-sort/week1-notes.md, before:

 # Week 1 notes - Divide and Conquer, Merge Sort
    File: merge-sort.js
    Author: Nathan Page
    Date: September 1, 2021

## Pseudocode 
 
    1. Split array into equal halves 
    2. Recursively spilt subarrays into equal halves
    3. Stop splitting at base case (array length = 1)
    4. Merge subarrays in sorted order until output array length == input array length 
    

 
## Running time is the number of lines of code that need to be executed to finish operation 

    **Claim: Merge sorts uses at most 6n*log(n)*n+6n operations for an array of length n**


## Level of recursion 
 
                O       Root
             /      \
            |        |
            O        O
            /\      /\
           /  \    /  \
          O    O  O    O     ... base 2 log (n) levels for array size of n

2^j number of subproblems each of size n/2^j 

total work = # of level j subprobs x subprob size at j 
work = 2^j *6*n/2^j = 6*n



## Ignoring to constant factors, lower-oerder terms
 > Justifications:
 > * Way easier to analyze
 > * constants depend on architecture/compiler/programmer
 > * lose very little predictive power


## Asymptotic Analysis 

    > Focus on running time for LARGE in puts sizes n
    > Example:6n*log(n) + 6n better than 1/2*n^2
    > Justification: Merge sort is "better" than others (insersion, selection) for LARGE data sizes

    for smaller n, the algorithm with smaller constant factors will be "faster"

    ** Fast Algorithm = WORKST-CASE RUNNING TIME FROWS SLOWLY WITH INPUT SIZE **

    "Sweet spot" : matheematical tractability and predictive power

    Holy grail: linear runnning time given input size (or as close as possible

Commit message:

Added big oh notation example and terminology

course1-divide-conquer-sorting-searching/week1-merge-sort/week1-notes.md, after:

 # Week 1 notes - Divide and Conquer, Merge Sort
    Author: Nathan Page
    Date: September 1, 2021

## Pseudocode 
 
    1. Split array into equal halves 
    2. Recursively spilt subarrays into equal halves
    3. Stop splitting at base case (array length = 1)
    4. Merge subarrays in sorted order until output array length == input array length 


    

 
## Running time is the number of lines of code that need to be executed to finish operation 

    **Claim: Merge sorts uses at most 6n*log(n)*n+6n operations for an array of length n**


## Level of recursion 
 
                O       Root
             /      \
            |        |
            O        O
            /\      /\
           /  \    /  \
          O    O  O    O     ... base 2 log (n) levels for array size of n

2^j number of subproblems each of size n/2^j 

total work = # of level j subprobs x subprob size at j 
work = 2^j *6*n/2^j = 6*n

## Ignoring to constant factors, lower-order terms
 > Justifications:
 > * Way easier to analyze
 > * constants depend on architecture/compiler/programmer
 > * lose very little predictive power


## Asymptotic Analysis 

    > Focus on running time for LARGE in puts sizes n
    > Example:6n*log(n) + 6n better than 1/2*n^2
    > Justification: Merge sort is "better" than others (insersion, selection) for LARGE data sizes

    for smaller n, the algorithm with smaller constant factors will be "faster"

    ** Fast Algorithm = WORST-CASE RUNNING TIME FROWS SLOWLY WITH INPUT SIZE **

    "Sweet spot" : matheematical tractability and predictive power

    Holy grail: linear runnning time given input size (or as close as possible

### The Gist
**Asymptotic analysis is _the_ way programmers communicate the performance of algorithms**

Big Oh notation is used to quickly and efficiently convey the performace of a specific algorithm

High-Level Idea: Suppress constant factors and l ower-order terms.

> Example: equate `6n log(n) + 6n` with just `nlog(n)`

Terminology: running itme is `O(nlogn)` where n equals to input size
